# Healthdata_Drug_Distribution_System

Project Title: A database design for Healthcare data management and medicine distribution.

Problem Statement: 
A healthcare company in the United States seeks to keep track of and separate patient data based on their insurance companies and respective pharmacies. They seek to establish an automated drug distribution system to provide finest service to their customers. Patients, healthcare providers, medicine orders, and pharmacies are the four key entities that make up this management system.

Objective:
In the Healthcare data management system, Patient’s data will be classified according to their individual Healthcare providers and pharmacies. In addition, the medicine distribution system will extract the patients' medicine orders and will update the directories of various pharmacies for medicine delivery.
The structure of system goes as follows:
•	Patients will receive services from the Healthcare Providers (Hospitals, Clinics, Consultants etc).
•	Orders will be generated based on prescriptions given by HCP’s.
•	Patients will be grouped based on their insurance providers and geographic location.
•	Orders data will be separated into categories based on the pharmacies that will be distributing the medications.
•	A periodic structure will be provided for the medicines being prescribed to different patients
Please refer to the Documentation for more details on Project.

Built With
•	Oracle SQL Developer
•	Oracle 21c Database Connectivity

Prerequisites
Please install Oracle SQL Developer using below URL suitable for your computer.
Then create an account on Oracle Cloud to get Free access to the Oracle 21c database.
•	https://www.oracle.com/tools/downloads/sqldev-downloads.html
•	https://www.oracle.com/cloud/sign-in.html?redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fcloud.oracle.com%2F

Installation
1.	Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/SomnathSolaskar/Healthdata_Drug_Distribution_System.git

Usage
•	Connect Oracle SQL Developer with the Database
•	Create Tables by using DDL Statements - DDL
•	Create Required Stored Procedures and Triggers using - Procedures
•	View the data using - Views

Roadmap
Outbound Flow :
•	Insert the Data in following steps :
(a)	Add Patient - ins_patient (Procedure)
(b)	Add Patient Contact - ins_pat_contact (Procedure)
(c)	A Case will be created in Database for each table by a trigger – trg_ins_case
(d)	Add Prescription for a Patient - ins_pat_prescription (Procedure)
(e)	Add medicine to the prescription - ins_prescription_medicine (Procedure)
(f)	A claim will be generated for prescription using trigger - trg_ins_claims
(g)	Insurance Client will approve the claim by using - claims_approval (Procedure)
(h)	Once claim is approved the orders will be generated by trigger - trg_create_order
(i)	A procedure is loaded in above trigger to create an order - create_orders
(j)	Orders will be sent out to Respective Pharmacies in csv file format

Inbound Flow :
(a)	A file will be received from pharmacies and loaded in In_raw table having order status.
(b)	Error recrds will be filtered out using functions and Procedure - filter_order_inputs, error_records_transfer
Use Execute script to perform above steps.

Contact
Your Name – ssolaskar500@gmail.com / solaskar.s@northeastern.edu

Acknowledgments
Below Oracle Documentation for Oracle 21c release will help you understand the concepts used in the Project in detail.
•	Oracle Documentation
